Welcome to the Waterline 4.0 Guide!

The main new feature of our new 4.0 Update is the inclusion of an Ocean FFT solver!
Our FFTs are based entirely on Blueprints, have a ton of exposed and easily accessible parameters and are entirely calculated on the GPU!
Mixed with our existin Waterline Post-Porcess and Surface Material as well as our Shallow Water Sim you now have access to a true state-of-the-art water system.

Our New "Waterline Ocean" Actor has Ocean Simulation settings for:

FFT Resolution: From 64 to 1024
Simulation Scale FFT: Area of Ocean Simulated
Wind Speed FFT: Size of Ocean Swells
Wave Amplitude FFT: Wave height at the simulation level
Wave Speed: Speed of the FFT Waves

Wave Height FFT: Wave Height at the Material Stage
Wave Choppyness FFT: Wave shape at the Material Stage
Wave Tile FFT: Scale of the FFT Textures

Wind Direction: Direction of the FFT Waves

FFT Buoyancy Height: Manual Adjustments for the Wave height for the FFT Buoyancy.
FFT Buoyancy: Use FFT simulation as a basis for the water level for buoyancy (Extremely Expencive to calculate, best to use in animations only)

Use FFT Simulation Delay: Add a simulation lag. For example if a scene is running at 60 fps, we can run the ocean sim at 57-58 and see no visual changes while gaining performance
FFT Simulation Delay Amount: How much should the simulation be delayed.


Our Ocean Surface Materials have new settings for:

Roughness Blend: Roughness falloff

Use Small Normals: Adds a secondary normal based detail waves.
	S Normal Tile
	S Normal Speed
	S Normal Strenght
	S Normal Texture

Large Normals or L Normal settings for large waves at a distance.
	L Normal Tile
	L Normal Power Far
	L Normal Power Close
	L Normal Falloff

FFT Normal Power: Controls the strenght of the FFT Simulated Normals

Vector Displacement Distance and Falloff: Blends between Vector Displacement and Z Displacement Near the Camera - can imporve Waterline Accuracy, but affects choppyness

Horizon Controls: Affect the Ocean Visuals near the Horizon.